.. image:: resources/images/myriad-worlds-192.jpg
    :alt: Myriad Worlds Logo
    :align: right

~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Myriad Worlds
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. contents:: Table of Contents


About
=====

This project is an experiment in generating worlds, stories, and interactive
fiction games. It attempts to do all this with a heritage of the classic
text-based adventure games -- as well as continuously drawing on them for
future inspiration. More than a game engine to power text adventures, this
project aims to be a framework for generating worlds -- and stories within
those worlds -- that are compelling, dynamic, and unpredictable.

History
-------

This code is based on the `adventure engine`_ that `Paul McGuire`_, the author
of PyParsing_, wrote and then summarized for a `PyCon 2006 talk`_. The first
revision in the myriad-worlds repository is his work, 100%.

.. Section Links
   ==============

.. _adventure engine: http://www.ptmcg.com/geo/python/confs/adventureEngine.py

.. _Paul McGuire: http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/au/2557

.. _PyParsing: http://pyparsing.wikispaces.com/

.. _PyCon 2006 talk: http://www.ptmcg.com/geo/python/confs/pyCon2006_pres2.html


Vision
------

Each subsequent revision since then has aimed to expand Paul's original work
into something that could support an experiment in authoring interactive
fiction adventure games. The initial thrust of this experimentation was:

* object- or connection-based storyline generation (as opposed to room-based)
  but this quickly expanded into exploring the following:

  * ASCII maps generated from textual descriptions

  * procedurally generated floor plans, city plans, landscapes, etc.

  * how to abstract a world and the narration of its contents in a way amenable
    to generating new stories from rearranged content

Ultimately, the intent of this project is to be able to create interesting
games that are infinitely replayable, due to the variation that is possible.


Install
=======

Myriad Worlds uses setuptools, and is thus ``pip``-friendly (and that's the
best way to install the software). The installer automatically downloads and
installs the dependencies, so you don't have to. In short, however, it depends
upon DreamSSH_ which is a custom SSH server created with the Twisted networking
framework (Python).

If you like to keep a tight control over what gets installed into your system
Python packages, we'd encourage you to use ``virtualenv`` to install and run
Myriad Worlds games.

.. Section Links
   ==============

.. _DreamSSH: https://github.com/dreamhost/dreamssh


Usage
=====


There are a couple example games that come with Myriad Worlds, and those that
work use the Twisted plugin infrastructure. The plugin setup allows for games
to be run in one of several modes:

#. locally (no server starts)

#. single player (a server starts, but there are no shared sessions)

#. multiplayer (a server starts with shared session for all players)


Running a Local Instance
------------------------

Here's how you start up a local instance::

  $ twistd myriad

The default is to run a local game (not a networked game) and to use the "House
Adventure 2" as the game. As such, the above command is equiavalent to::

  $ twistd myriad --game-type=local \
      --game-dir=./examples/house-adventure-2

To run a differnt came, point to a different game dir::

  $ twistd myriad --game-dir=./examples/house-adventure


Running a Server
----------------

First, you'll need to generate SSH keys for the game server::

  $ twistd myriad keygen

With those in place, you're ready to start the game server::

  $ twistd myriad --gametype=singleplayer

That will run the game daemon, and now you can log into the game::

  $ twistd myriad shell


Project Management
==================

Bugs are tracked using Launchpad:

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/myriad-worlds

Development plans, if any exist, are managed using Launchpad blueprints:

* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/myriad-worlds

Development tasks are managed using a correlation between blueprints and the
issue tracker. Each blueprint has a list of associated "bugs."

Until the projects and tasks get moved into Launchpad, the current project
management tool is the TODO_ file.

.. Section Links
   ==============

.. _TODO: myriad-worlds/tree/master/TODO.rst


Revision History
================

TBD
